add langsmith release notes (#4338)
langchain-ai/docs: src/langsmith/product-changelog.mdx

---
title: LangSmith product changelog
sidebarTitle: Product changelog
rss: true
---

<Callout icon="rss" color="#4F46E5" iconType="regular">
**Subscribe**: This changelog includes an [RSS feed](https://docs.langchain.com/langsmith/product-changelog/rss.xml) you can connect to Slack, email, or Discord.
</Callout>

Weekly updates to [LangSmith Cloud](/langsmith/home), [Fleet](/langsmith/fleet), and [Engine](/langsmith/engine).

<Update label="Week of June 2, 2026" tags={["langsmith-cloud", "fleet", "engine"]} rss={{ title: "2026-06-06 - product update" }}>

## LangSmith Cloud

### Observability

- The trace view now shows an unread indicator on a run's actions menu when the run has reviewer notes you have not seen yet.

> - Large traces load faster and no longer become unresponsive while you navigate them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Performance improvements for the loading of large traces.
```

- The waterfall view is now full-height with sticky turn headers, so you keep your place while scrolling through long traces.

> - Feedback chips and the annotation queue popover update immediately after you act, rather than lagging behind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

- Global search now includes context and sandboxes.

> - Filter values are now preserved when you reopen a filter dropdown to edit it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Filter values for metadata are now preserved when you reopen a filter dropdown to edit it.
```

> - The project stats trace count label and header layout are fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ### Monitoring and charts

Reviewer: delete monitoring and charts section entirely because the one bullet is still feature flagged

- Custom monitoring charts gain new chart types, a resizable and reorderable chart grid, and improved column chart breakpoints, so you can build dashboards that fit your data.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

### Evaluation and experiments

- A new out-of-the-box Assertions evaluator scores outputs against an explicit list of criteria specified in the reference output, and an Assertions rule is auto-attached when you add assertion-style examples to a dataset.
- Evaluator metrics are improved in the experiment detail, comparison, and global experiments tables.
- The experiments table now displays loading progress bars showing the number of runs completed and evaluated, and experiments that predate this feature show a placeholder progress bar.

> - Online evaluators add spending controls: you can set and validate per-evaluator spend limits and view spend totals and spend charts with resource filters applied.

Reviewer 2: The above two are still behind a FF in our tenants, not yet shipped to prod. I would not include for this week & leave it for the following week!

> - Online evaluators add spending controls: you can set and validate per-evaluator spend limits and view spend totals and spend charts with resource filters applied.

Author: ```suggestion
```

- Dataset creation now uses a multi-select dropdown for choosing CSV fields.

### Automations

- Run rule webhook payloads now include a trace deep link for each run, so downstream systems can jump straight back to the trace.

### Prompts and Playground

- The Playground supports Amazon Bedrock API key authentication, letting you authenticate with a bearer token instead of AWS credentials.

### Usage and billing

- Granular billable usage now supports filtering and grouping by retention tier, separating long-lived from short-lived traces.
- The Granular Billable Usage page now surfaces LangSmith Deployment usage, including nodes executed, agent runs, and agent uptime, alongside trace usage.

### Administration

- Organization admins can now disable personal access token creation from the organization settings page.

## Fleet

> - Scheduled (cron) execution is restored for enterprise Fleet agents, which had been silently failing to fire since early March 2026.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Scheduled (cron) execution is restored for enterprise Fleet agents.
```

- Long-running agent runs and agent-builder generations are no longer cut off after 60 seconds.
- The Gmail read-emails tool now returns results when you search sent mail with an `in:sent` query.
- Skills load faster: the skills list fetches lightweight metadata first and loads file contents only when you open a skill.
- Scrolling is improved for long toolbox, skill, and sub-agent lists in the agent editor, and webhook dialogs now scroll within the viewport.
- The agent creation menu adds a Templates entry.

> - Workspace admins can set a custom OAuth scope on an MCP server's OAuth provider, which is required to connect to servers such as Microsoft Business Central.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Not live yet. will look at the PR

- The remote MCP authorization screen now shows the connecting application's name, logo, and homepage, terms, and privacy links instead of its raw client ID.

> - Stale Slack unavailable banners are removed for the AWS and APAC regions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Slack integration available in AWS and APAC regions.
```

> - MCP tools are now available to Deep Agents deployments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Unrelated

## Engine

- Per-workspace Engine spend is now generally available: you can view LCU and USD spend directly on the Engine settings page, including session-level spend.
- The Engine settings page now surfaces additional Engine details in one place.
- You can rotate Engine issue-board webhook signing secrets from both the API and the webhook settings UI.

> - The Engine issues board adds a sort option by trace count.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The Engine issues list adds a sort option by trace count.
```

> - The billing dashboard now surfaces thread IDs that have hit their spend cap.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

```

> - Enterprise trial organizations see a one-time notice when their Engine trial is ending.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

```

> - The Engine tab is wrapped in an error boundary, so a failure there no longer disrupts the surrounding page.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

```
